---
title: "Day 2"
date: 2020-06-22
author: Jean Marie
categories: 
 - Daily Update
tags:
 - update
 - todo
 - progress
---

## Day Summary

* 8h30-9h30: Meeting. Repartion of the team into groups.
  - Game Design: Pascal, Thomas
  - Level generation: Dorian, Mélissa
  - Graphics: Virgile, Pascal
  - Music: Dorian, Mélissa
  - Software engineering: Jean-Marie, Thomas

* 9h30-11H30: Groups meeting
  - Game Design: Decided what mobs we show and what bonus types to keep (auto consume items)
  - Level generation: Strating on a generation algorithm
  - Graphics: Decided what to show in the window, background and sprites. We decided not to use fake 3D. 
  - Music: Choose a theme song
  - Software engineering: First draft for the strucs off the main elements: entitys, Isaac, tears, ...

* 14h - 17h: Meeting with everyone.
  - Update the strucs to take into account the needs of other groups
  - Clarification of some technical points (For instance, we will mostly work inside the VBlanck interruption, with the screen updates at the beginning)
  - Estimation of the memory consomation of each groups
  - Concerns about the speed of the collision function
  - next milestone: prototype of the game
    + Isaac, in a room, with rocks and collision
    + Isaac can shoot tears
    + Generation of a level (not displayed, just tested by inspecting the memory)
    + A little music

* Comming soon:
  - Instance of documentation
  - Collision function

* Proposition for the implementation of animation:
  - Array: Current frame represented by the id of the array and the index. Check the lenght of the array to know when to loop.
  - Graph: Current frame represented by address of the node. A node contains the sprites and the address of the next node.
